# **Tenet**
*Learn about the legendary masterpiece by Christopher Nolan. Protoganized by John David Washington. Music: Ludwig Goransson.*

Welcome to the Tenet repo.

![Tenet](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/71959277/122685014-8ea1e000-d1f8-11eb-85d4-30828cb1745a.jpg)

Tenet is a 2020 science fiction action thriller film written and directed by Christopher Nolan, who produced it with Emma Thomas. A co-production between the United Kingdom and United States, it stars John David Washington, Robert Pattinson, Elizabeth Debicki, Dimple Kapadia, Michael Caine, and Kenneth Branagh. The film follows a secret agent who learns to manipulate the flow of time to prevent an attack from the future that threatens to annihilate the present world.

![TenetTeam](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/71959277/122685032-a24d4680-d1f8-11eb-95ce-f651cf2367dd.jpg)

Nolan took more than five years to write the screenplay after deliberating about Tenet'scentral ideas for over a decade. Pre-production began in late 2018, casting took place in March 2019, and principal photography lasted six months, from May to November, in Denmark, Estonia, India, Italy, Norway,the United Kingdom, and the United States.
 
![TenetDiagonal](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/71959277/122685020-9a8da200-d1f8-11eb-9868-048fdd4ba82b.jpg)

### *The Plot*
After having a near-death experience, an unnamed CIA operative, known as
the Protagonist, is selected to join the ranks of the shadowy 
government organization called Tenet: a group tasked with ensuring the 
survival of the human race. Entrusted with coming to grips with a 
terrifying, cutting-edge technology, and an imminent attack from the 
future, the Protagonist teams up with his cryptic new partner, Neil, 
following a faint trail of clues that lead to the villainous Russian 
oligarch, Sator. However, this is a race against time, and as the 
suffocating stranglehold of the invisible threat tightens, more and 
more, the future of our world is hanging by a thread. Can two agents 
working alone avert the impending Armageddon?

### *Scientific Accuracy*
The film's plot revolves around reversing the entropy of things and people, resulting in time reversibility. Tenet makes reference to physics concepts including annihilation,the second law of thermodynamics, Maxwell's demon, and Feynman and Wheeler's notion of a  one-electron universe,but Christopher Nolan stated in the film's press notes: "we’re not going to make any case for this being scientifically accurate”.

### *Synopsis*
> Warning: Major Spoilers Ahead.

In Kiev, Ukraine, an unnamed operative, The Protagonist (John David 
Washington), assists in a CIA assignment to foil an opera siege and 
retrieve a stolen cache of plutonium. His mission also seems to be to 
rescue a man, which he does so with the help of a team with whom he 
blends in with SWAT teams. During the operation, the plutonium is found 
to be fake. Furthermore, The Protagonist realizes that the opera was 
being bombed and so he collects the bombs to save the people. The 
Protagonist is at gunpoint by one SWAT member but is saved by a masked 
gunman with a red string on his back. The masked man appeared to be 
using a time-reversed gun. The Protagonist throws the bag of bombs away 
and the people are saved. He is then abducted and tortured until he 
bites on an apparent suicide pill before revealing any information.

Upon waking, the Protagonist learns the pill was a test of his loyalty. He 
also is told that his team didn't get clear. He is recruited into a 
secret organization, given only the information that the word "Tenet" 
and a cross-fingered gesture will "open many doors" for him. The 
Protagonist infiltrates a facility where he learns that in the future, 
technology has been developed that allows objects to have their entropy 
reversed and move backward through time. To demonstrate this, a 
scientist presents him with bullets that fire in reverse. The scientist 
believes that there is a war coming as objects are being streamed back 
in time from the future.

Tracking the metal from which the 
reversed bullets are made, the Protagonist infiltrates the compound of 
an Indian billionaire in Mumbai with the aid of Neil (Robert Pattinson),
 a British intelligence agent. He learns that it is in fact the 
billionaire's wife, Priya (Dimple Kapadia), who knows what is happening.
 Priya tells the Protagonist that the time-reversing technology is under
 the control of a Russian arms dealer, Andrei Sator (Kenneth Branagh), 
who is in communication with the future.

The Protagonist meets 
Sir Michael Crosby (Michael Caine) who tells him that an explosion went 
off in a now-abandoned city in Russia known as Stalsk-12. The 
Protagonist learns from him that in order to get to Sator, he needs to 
approach his "practically estranged" wife Kat (Elizabeth Debecki). The 
Protagonist meets Kat and they talk at a restaurant. Kat tells the 
Protagonist that Sator has her under his control due to a forged 
painting that she gave to him. She also mentions that she tried to love 
him again to see if he would let her go free but Sator gave her the 
option to stay or leave and never see her son again. She says she saw a 
woman dive off their yacht in Vietnam when they were on holiday. Sator's
 men arrive at the restaurant soon. The Protagonist manages to fight his
 way and escape but one of them drives away with Kat just as the 
Protagonist finishes the last henchman.

The Protagonist later 
tries to win Kat's trust by retrieving the painting from a freeport at 
Oslo Airport. Neil goes first to inspect the situation and they plan to 
crash a cargo plane to start a fire to activate the lockdown procedure, 
allowing them to steal the painting. They take the help of Mahir (Himesh
 Patel), who crashes the aircraft and drops gold bars on the road as a 
distraction. During the operation, however, the Protagonist and Neil are
 attacked by two masked men, one inverted and one forward who emerged 
from a temporal stile in the pentagon. Both antagonists escape before 
the Protagonist and Neil are able to find out who they are. The 
Protagonist meets Priya who tells him that the two antagonists were the 
same person.

The Protagonist returns to Kat, asking for her help 
in meeting Sator. Kat arranges for the Protagonist to attend a dinner 
party, hosted by Sator, but the oligarch does not trust the Protagonist 
until he mentions "opera". The Protagonist, Kat, and Sator go sailing 
where Sator and the Protagonist are discussing about plutonium when Kat 
pushes Sator out of the boat. The Protagonist saves him and Kat is mad 
at him for that. Sator says he is in debt so he funds the Protagonist 
who offers to steal weapons-grade plutonium for him.

The 
Protagonist and Neil plan a heist on a highway and they succeed in 
stealing the plutonium, which is in an orange case, from an armored 
vehicle but they are interrupted by an inverted car. The car chases them
 until they see an inverted Sator holding a forward Kat at gunpoint in 
it. A crashed Saab on the road flips back and drives backward in between
 them. Sator signals the Protagonist to hand over the plutonium but the 
Protagonist hands over an empty orange case and throws the plutonium 
into the Saab. The Protagonist uncovers Sator and his gang's plot: they 
are operating a "temporal pincer movement" in which they move both 
forwards and backward in time, by means of entering a "temporal stile" 
following the operation and then moving backward through time.

At
 the "temporal junction", Sator shoots Kat and leaves with her before 
Neil calls for reinforcements and they arrive to secure the temporal 
stile. The Protagonist suspects them, questioning Neil about who these 
people are. Neil tells him they are Priya's men, a team led by Ives 
(Aaron Taylor Johnson). The Protagonist follows Sator back through the 
temporal stile despite being warned not to, where he turns out to be the
 driver of the Saab. He puts a radio device on an empty orange casing on
 the road and waits for it to go back into a car. He follows it and it 
turns out Sator saw the plutonium flying from the Saab back into forward
 Protagonist's hands. He hears from the device that Sator had assembled 
the algorithm (the fake plutonium pieces) which are being taken to the 
hypocentre. In the chase, the Saab crashes with the inverted Protagonist
 inside it. Sator burns the car which turns into ice and manages to get 
hold of the algorithm piece off-screen. The Protagonist is rescued by 
Ives' team.

Sator is revealed to be dying from inoperable 
pancreatic cancer and has turned omnicidal, believing that if he is to 
die, he would prefer to spread death to all humanity. Sator is not 
looking for plutonium, but some future algorithm (9 pieces of the fake 
plutonium) that can cause the entropy "time direction" of the world to 
reverse. The algorithm will be created in the future by a future 
scientist as a way to turn back time since their future Earth is ruined 
by decisions made by present-day humans. Sator plans to use the 
algorithm as a doomsday device that will reverse entropy for the entire 
Earth, killing everything on it. He plans to return to a point in time 
when he was happy with Kat and then set off the device, which is 
connected to a dead man's switch linked to his heartbeat.

The 
Protagonist, Neil, and Kat follow Sator backward in time, travelling in a
 cargo ship container back to Oslo. The trio infiltrates the freeport 
art storage facility once again where they enter the temporal stile that
 allows Kat to move forwards through time again and have her gunshot 
wound healed. The Protagonist soon discovers he was, in fact, the 
unknown antagonist during their first operation at the freeport and 
hence has to fight his past self to go through.

The Protagonist 
meets Priya to ask her to warn his past self about how dangerous Sator 
is. However, she says she won't change what is about to happen. The 
Protagonist wants her word that Kat will be safe. This is because she 
has seen too much of what they are trying to keep secret - a loose end. 
Priya gives him her word. She also reveals to him that Tenet will be 
founded in the future. She says Ives has a team ready for the mission.

They
 travel further back in time, where a military operation is launched 
whereby the Protagonist and Neil attempt to retrieve the doomsday device
 from Sator's men from the future in Stalsk-12, while Kat is with her 
husband on his yacht, aiming to prevent him from killing himself before 
the doomsday device is retrieved. They operate in a temporal pincer 
movement where the red team moves forward covering the blue team's 
extraction and the blue team moves backward covering the red team's 
extraction. The Protagonist and Ives are on the red team while Neil is 
on the blue team.

Neil uses a temporal stile there to invert back
 to forward, halfway through the operation, to warn the Protagonist and 
Ives about a trap that he witnessed planted by Volkov - one of Sator's 
men. However, Neil's efforts are in vain. The Protagonist and Ives enter
 the tunnel and get stuck in there. They go deeper and find the place 
where the doomsday device is monitored by Volkov who is behind a gate 
that is locked. They also see a member of the blue team dead beside 
Volkov with a red string attached to his bag. The Protagonist recognizes
 this unknown person from the opera siege. Sator talks to the 
Protagonist from the boat about his plan through a communication device 
in the tunnel. Sator explains that since that future is dying so they 
have no other option than to turn back to the past. Sator then orders 
Volkov to shoot the Protagonist in the head when the dead body emerges, 
takes the shot and the gate unlocks. The Protagonist and Ives kill 
Volkov and retrieve the doomsday device. The blue team member closes the
 gate and goes back to the entrance.

Time is running out. Neil 
who has switched halfway throws a rope through the hole on top of the 
tunnel and the Protagonist and Ives hold on as they are pulled up. Kat 
kills Sator on the boat. The explosion goes off but the world is saved. 
Kat realizes that she was the woman her past self had seen on the boat 
and dives into the water.

Ives breaks the algorithm into 3 pieces
 and divides it between himself, the Protagonist, and Neil. Ives 
emphasizes that they should keep it secret. Neil passes his piece to the
 Protagonist as he intends to go back in. It was then that the 
Protagonist notices that Neil has a red string on his back. He deduces 
that Neil was therefore the masked man who saved him during the opera 
siege and the blue team member who gets killed by Volkov inside the 
tunnel. The Protagonist sheds tears as he knows his friend's destiny 
now. Neil reveals that he was hired into this operation in past by the 
future Protagonist and thus has known him for years. Neil tells the 
Protagonist that he'll see him at the beginning and goes back into the 
operation with the blue team.

The Protagonist then saves Kat from
 being killed by Priya after all of the film's events, revealing that it
 is his job to tie up loose ends and that he has been the leader of 
Tenet operations for two years in the past.
